‪["Qula Kwedini" playing]
‪[sighs] Ladies.
‪-Yes. dear?
‪-Is everything okay?
‪Yes. everything is fine.
‪Well. you'll let me know
‪if you need anything else.
‪-Okay.
‪-Thank you.
‪[phone buzzes. chimes]
‪-Menzi.
‪-[phone locks]
‪Hmm?
‪At least pretend.
‪Pretend like you're mourning.
‪Do it for the kids.
‪So what do you want me to do? Cry?
‪Well. if you want me to cry.
‪then I'll do as you say.
‪I'll cry.
‪I'll even ask your father
‪and beg him to watch over us.
‪But you and I. we both know the truth.
‪that the only thing he's watching over
‪is a strip club.
‪You know. you confuse me. Menzi.
‪One minute you're best friends with Dad.
‪the next. he passes away
‪and you act as if you don't care.
‪Menzi. what's going on?
‪[sighs] Let's drop this topic.
‪It's complicated.
‪I know Dad wanted you
‪to be like him. be him.
‪but you didn't have to do that.
‪-And you know why?
‪-[door opens]
‪You were always better.
‪Oh. Menzi. You're here?
‪[Menzi] Hi. Uncle.
‪You're hiding in the kitchen with women?
‪The men are outside. working.
‪-[scoffs] Come on.
‪-You want to be a man. right?
‪Your mother can't do
‪everything for you. Let's go.
‪-Ah. come on. Whoa.
‪-Leave that. Uh-uh.
‪Throw it out.
‪While you come outside with me.
‪There's no one here?
‪Why would you get
‪such an expensive Versace suit?
‪That man had so many other suits. Why?
‪Stop it. Mom.
‪It's not your money.
‪-Stop counting it.
‪-Forget it.
‪Do you honestly think this is a good idea?
‪What? To bury my husband?
‪Do you have a problem with that?
‪No. not at all. Not at all.
‪It's really not a problem.
‪-[Essie] Oh.
‪-It's just that I was thinking.
‪I think we should make a plan.
‪get Joyce a corpse that she can bury.
‪So that she can also have a burial.
‪No. no. no. I don't care about Joyce.
‪I've danced to her tune for far too long.
‪She didn't even let me see Jonasi
‪during his last days.
‪I didn't get to say goodbye.
‪I couldn't even tell him
‪that I forgive him.
‪-[clicks tongue]
‪-[Freedom] Okay.
‪[receptionist]
‪Mrs Gomora. my deepest condolences.
‪Thank you.
‪Uh. listen.
‪we've brought my husband's suit.
‪I want him to be buried in it.
‪Excuse me?
‪-[inhales sharply]
‪-What's wrong?
‪Uh… [clears throat] …it's just that your
‪husband's body has already been collected.
‪It was collected by his other wife.
‪[suspenseful music playing]
‪-She doesn't know me.
‪-[typing]
‪-I'll destroy her.
‪-[phone chimes]
‪Listen here. you're nothing
‪but an ant to me.
‪I will crush you. you hear me?
‪You're brave now?
‪Enough to steal people's corpses?
‪Be brave enough
‪to answer your freaking phone!
‪[choir singing funeral hymn]
‪[dialling]
‪[voicemail] ‪The telephone number
‪you called is not available at the moment.
‪-[scoffs]
‪-[call ends]
‪-Magesh. did you know about this?
‪-What are you talking about?
‪I'm asking you if you knew
‪about this thing Essie is doing?
‪-Would I be here if I knew?
‪-[vehicle approaches]
‪-[groans]
‪-I know nothing about this.
‪And? Can you get hold of Sarah?
‪Uh. Mom. It's just ringing.
‪She's not picking up.
‪Okay. call Freedom. Call Freedom.
‪[Menzi] Freedom's phone has been
‪on voicemail since this morning.
‪I swear. Essie will know who I am today.
‪She doesn't know me.
‪[Grace] Joyce. calm down.
‪-You're going to have a heart attack.
‪-No. Mom!
‪I had to share my husband
‪when he was alive.
‪I'd be damned
‪if I share him now when he's dead.
‪[sobbing. sniffles]
‪[priest] "Even as I walk
‪through the valley of the shadow of death.
‪I will have no fear. for He is with me."
‪Can I get an amen?
‪[all] Amen.
‪[priest] As we release these doves.
‪let those who loved and hated him
‪allow his soul to rest in peace.
‪I'm going to Soweto now.
‪And I'm going to fix this fucking madness!
‪Get in the car!
‪-Keep an eye on her.
‪-[Joyce] Let's go!
‪-[engine revving]
‪-[car door closes]
‪[cars honking]
‪[bleating]
‪[funeral goers singing]
‪[Essie sobbing] Oh. Jonasi.
‪Oh. Jonasi has left me.
‪Why did you leave me? [sobbing]
‪-[siren wails]
‪-[car door closes]
‪[Joyce] What the fuck is this circus?
‪-Essie! Essie!
‪-[Essie sniffles]
‪Who the fuck do you think you are exactly?
‪-Huh? Go ahead. Take him.
‪-I'm his wife!
‪You have no right to do this.
‪Do you hear me?
‪We've buried him.
‪What are you going to do? Nothing.
‪You see. now. I'm going to take him
‪and go bury him how I like.
‪Joyce. you want to take his body
‪to get back at me? Huh?
‪-You didn't want him anymore. You're evil.
‪-Hey!
‪You stole my husband's corpse.
‪What did you want me to do?
‪You wouldn't let me see him.
‪You knew he was dying.
‪knowing we were together.
‪You're evil! [clicks tongue]
‪After all these years.
‪I allowed you into my heart.
‪I allowed you into my life. my family.
‪my home. but all along you were lying.
‪Listen. I'll kill you before
‪I let you take this body. You hear me?
‪Essie. do not let this class fool you
‪into thinking I'm an idiot.
‪As for today.
‪there's gonna be hell to pay.
‪No. No!
‪Magesh! No! Magesh!
‪Magesh!
‪So then. listen to me
‪and mark my words carefully.
‪You're not allowed
‪at my husband's funeral.
‪If I get a whiff or even smell
‪that lowlife disgusting odour of yours.
‪I will call the police so fast.
‪you'll be arrested for trespassing.
‪-Magesh. talk to this woman.
‪-Essie. Essie!
‪-[car door closes]
‪-What do you expect me to do?
‪Magesh. please talk to her.
‪-I'm sorry. Essie.
‪-[gasps]
‪My hands are tied.
‪There's nothing I can do.
‪-Mom. Wait.
‪-[sobbing]
‪-[Essie] Oh!
‪-[engine starts]
‪-[sobbing]
‪-[Essie wailing]
‪I'm sorry.
‪I spoke to Dad on the day that he died.
‪He asked me
‪to make sure you're taken care of.
‪That was his last wish.
‪[wailing continues]
‪I want you to know the day that he died…
‪-[sniffles]
‪-…he was thinking of you.
‪[sobbing]
‪You're going to be okay.
‪-[tape rewinding]
‪-[Menzi] Mom!
‪[pensive music playing]
‪Just one more day.
‪-Hi. how are you?
‪-How are you. Joyce?
‪-I'll be inside.
‪-Okay. I'll see you inside.
‪Joyce.
‪[stammers] It's been a while.
‪Ashley.
‪Hayley.
‪Hello.
‪Come say hello to Mommy.
‪[breathes shakily]
‪[lead vocalist. in Zulu]
‪♪ ‪There's no road‪ ♪
‪[choir] ♪ ‪There's no road‪ ♪
‪♪ ‪To heaven‪ ♪
‪[lead vocalist] ♪ ‪That goes…‪ ♪
‪♪ ‪Where you want to go‪ ♪
‪[whispering. in English] Jo.
‪Things could've ended
‪so differently for you and I.
‪You thought and believed you knew better.
‪-You ruined everything…
‪-[hyperventilating]
‪…we have built together.
‪Well. look at you now. Jonasi.
‪At the end of it all…
‪death…
‪has finally separated us.
‪You will never. ever break my heart again.
‪Motherfucker.
‪[hyperventilating]
‪[whimpers]
‪[pensive music playing]
‪[people murmuring]
‪[guest exclaims]
‪[pastor] Thank you.
‪Let's bow our heads and pray.
‪Our Father in heaven.
‪-your Word says. "Where two or three"--
‪-[Lindani sobbing] Gomora!
‪Why did you leave me?
‪Why did you leave me? [breathing heavily]
‪-You Jezebel! Get out!
‪-Mm-mmm. I have the right to bury my man.
‪-Go outside.
‪-I wanna bury my man!
‪-[Magesh] Shut up!
‪-I wanna bury my man.
‪-[Magesh] Get out!
‪-[sobbing]
‪[Magesh] Move. Move it!
‪-Move. Get out of here.
‪-[people murmuring]
‪-[clears throat]
‪-[murmuring continues]
‪[pastor] She really loved him.
‪I'd like to call Joyce
‪to come give a few words.
‪Amen. saints.
‪[singing. in Zulu] ♪ ‪Beautiful home‪ ♪
‪♪ ‪My home‪ ♪
‪♪ ‪Let me enter‪ ♪
‪♪ ‪The gate‪ ♪
‪[suspenseful music playing]
‪[footsteps approaching]
‪[guests gasping. murmuring]
‪[murmuring continues]
‪[chairs scraping]
‪♪ ‪Those who hunger‪ ♪
‪-♪ ‪Those who hunger ‪♪
‪-[guests humming]
‪♪ ‪The mockers‪ ♪
‪♪ ‪And the needy‪ ♪
‪-♪ ‪Will be shepherded‪ ♪
‪-[breathing shakily. sighs]
‪♪ ‪By the Lamb‪ ♪
‪♪ ‪They are already in You‪ ♪
‪-♪ ‪My home‪ ♪
‪-[breathes shakily]
‪-♪ ‪Oh. they will be shepherded‪ ♪
‪-[breathes heavily. sobs]
‪-♪ ‪By the Lamb‪ ♪
‪-[in English] Menzi.
‪[Menzi sighs]
‪[breathes shakily]
‪I'm sorry about your father.
‪[scoffs] I don't even know why I'm crying
‪because I lost my father a long time ago.
‪You'll be all right. okay?
‪[pastor] I'd now like to call Mpume Gomora
‪-to come and read his obituary.
‪-[footsteps approach]
‪-[pastor] Amen.
‪-[all] Amen.
‪[Mpume] I greet you all. [sniffles]
‪Standing before you is Mpume Gomora
‪the daughter of Jonasi Gomora.
‪[breathing shakily]
‪[sniffles] I'd like to thank you all for
‪coming today to bury our father with us.
‪I'm sorry. but I'd like to
‪change the programme slightly.
‪[sniffles] I'd like to call my
‪brothers and sisters to come forward.
‪Nkazimulo and the twins.
‪Ashley and Hayley.
‪[clears throat] And Sarah.
‪[footsteps approach]
‪[breathing shakily]
‪My dad was a very complex man.
‪And you couldn't confirm him.
‪[cries] He was loving.
‪I was his favourite. [sniffles]
‪Even though he never said it.
‪[sniffles]
‪The way he treated me.
‪Dad loved me.
‪Jonasi Gomora was a very easy man to love…
‪[sniffles] …and hate.
‪all at the same time.
‪[sniffles] I think that most of you
‪could testify to that.
‪I don't know if I'd be lying
‪if I said… [sniffles]
‪…the best parts of my dad
‪were made by the women in his life.
‪Matipa taught him about determination.
‪and loving someone against all odds.
‪[cries. exclaims]
‪And then there's Mom Essie.
‪Mom Essie. well. she taught my dad
‪the importance of culture
‪and the importance of family.
‪To laugh
‪and be happy.
‪To dance like no one's watching.
‪-[inhales deeply]
‪-[all chuckle]
‪[Mpume] To live.
‪My mother.
‪Joyce Gomora.
‪[distorted] My mother taught my father
‪to have class. [sniffles]
‪And to love your family.
‪Prioritizing your family.
‪-[unsettling music plays]
‪-[Joyce] ‪Tell me. Jo.
‪-Do you remember Lungi?
‪-[knocks on door]
‪[Jonasi] What are people going to say?
‪[smacks lips] I think I may be lost.
‪Well. Jonasi. do you know that
‪you're here in this state today
‪-because of her.
‪-[coughs]
‪You hit me.
‪-I'm a bastard?
‪-[screams]
‪And then you raped me.
‪[Lungi] ‪He was busy sleeping around with
‪all these bitches he came across.
‪Then he gives me HIV?
‪Lungi. I want you…
‪to infect my husband with HIV.
‪[dramatic music plays]
‪I want his insatiable need he has
‪-to have sex with every single…
‪-[moans]
‪…woman he meets
‪-‪to be the very thing that kills him.
‪-[both grunt]
‪[dramatic music continues]
‪[Mpume] My dad was reckless.
‪He believed that his actions
‪had no consequences.
‪[Joyce] ‪And the cherry on top.
‪-Menzi has been playing you like a fiddle…
‪-[coughs. wheezes]
‪-…so you could change your will.
‪-[coughing]
‪You're my heir.
‪Everything goes to you.
‪I will never give birth to a child
‪that will be like you…
‪[Sarah sobbing]
‪[Jonasi whispers] Joyce. [coughing]
‪Because Menzi will never be like you.
‪[wheezing]
‪["I Knew Lovin'" playing]
‪[coughing]
‪[moaning]
‪[Lindani moans]
‪[both grunting. moaning]
‪-Mr Gomora. [moans]
‪-[grunts]
‪[song continues]